First draft of Using HTTP Subscriptions with an API Gateway (#800)
apollographql/docs: src/content/technotes/TN0047-using-http-subscriptions-api-gateway.mdx

---
title: Using HTTP Subscriptions with an API Gateway
subtitle: Enable HTTP multipart subscriptions when using an API Gateway infront of the Router
description: Enable HTTP multipart subscriptions when using an API Gateway infront of the Router.
published: 2024-03-11
id: TN0047
tags: [router]
---

> Organizations commonly require that all APIs be fronted by an API Gateway [including the Apollo Router](/technotes/TN0037-api-gateways).
> These API Gateways often are not configured by default to send multipart HTTP requests chunks as they are available which leads to unexpected behavior when using [subscriptions over HTTP Multipart](/router/executing-operations/subscription-support#http-callback-setup).
> 
> To allow HTTP multipart subscriptions to work correctly, the API Gateway must send the response as it comes and not buffer the response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn how to configure an API gateway to support HTTP multipart subscriptions with the Apollo Router.

Organizations can require their APIs—including [the Apollo Router](/technotes/TN0037-api-gateways)—to be fronted by an API gateway. API gateways often aren't configured to support [subscriptions over HTTP multipart](/router/executing-operations/subscription-support#http-callback-setup): API gateways by default usually buffer HTTP responses, but subscriptions over HTTP multipart require multipart responses to be streamed, not buffered.

The rest of this article describes how to configure API gateways from different vendors to stream and not buffer HTTP responses, therefore supporting subscriptions over HTTP multipart.   

```

<!-- vale Apollo.Headings = NO -->

## Azure API Management (APIM)

<!-- vale Apollo.Headings = YES -->

> By default, an HTTP API endpoint setup in APIM buffers the response from a downstream service. What this means is that it will "wait" to receive all the chunks from the HTTP request before returning it to the client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, an HTTP API endpoint in APIM buffers each response from a downstream service, where the endpoint must receive all chunks of an HTTP response before it sends the response to the client.
```

> To enable HTTP subscriptions, the `forward-request` policy on the `backend` should be updated with `buffer-response="false"`. This will result in the endpoint sending the chunks to the requesting client as they are received.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable HTTP subscriptions, the `forward-request` policy on the `backend` must be updated with `buffer-response="false"`. This configures the HTTP API endpoint to send the chunks of a response to the requesting client as they are received.
```

```xml
<policies>
    <backend>
        <forward-request http-version="2or1" buffer-response="false" />
    </backend>
</policies>
```

<Note>

For more information, see the [Azure API Management policy reference - forward-request](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/api-management/forward-request-policy#attributes).

</Note>

<!-- vale Apollo.Headings = NO -->

## Google Apigee

<!-- vale Apollo.Headings = YES -->

> By default, an HTTP API endpoint in Apigee buffers the response from a downstream service. What this means is that it will "wait" to receive all the chunks from the HTTP request before returning it to the client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, an HTTP API endpoint in Apigee buffers each response from a downstream service, where the endpoint must receive all chunks of an HTTP response before it sends the response to the client.
```

> To enable HTTP subscriptions, the `response.streaming.enabled` property should be set to `true` in both your ProxyEndpoint and TargetEndpoint definitions in the proxy bundle. This will result in the endpoint sending the chunks to the requesting client as they are received.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable HTTP subscriptions, the `response.streaming.enabled` property should be set to `true` in both your `ProxyEndpoint` and `TargetEndpoint` definitions in the proxy bundle. This will result in the endpoint sending the chunks to the requesting client as they are received.
```

> To enable HTTP subscriptions, the `response.streaming.enabled` property should be set to `true` in both your `ProxyEndpoint` and `TargetEndpoint` definitions in the proxy bundle. This will result in the endpoint sending the chunks to the requesting client as they are received.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable HTTP subscriptions, the `response.streaming.enabled` property must be set to `true` in both your `ProxyEndpoint` and `TargetEndpoint` definitions in the proxy bundle. This configures the HTTP API endpoint to send the chunks of a response to the requesting client as they are received.
```

```xml
<TargetEndpoint name="default">
  <HTTPTargetConnection>
    <URL>http://mocktarget.apigee.net</URL>
    <Properties>
      <Property name="response.streaming.enabled">true</Property>
    </Properties>
  </HTTPTargetConnection>
</TargetEndpoint>
```

```xml
<ProxyEndpoint name="default">
  <HTTPProxyConnection>
    <BasePath>/v1/weather</BasePath>
    <Properties>
      <Property name="response.streaming.enabled">true</Property>
    </Properties>
  </HTTPProxyConnection>
</ProxyEndpoint>
```

<Note>

For more information, see [Streaming requests and responses in the Apigee documentation](https://cloud.google.com/apigee/docs/api-platform/develop/enabling-streaming?hl=en).

</Note>

## Mulesoft

<!-- vale Apollo.Headings = NO -->

### Flex Gateway

<!-- vale Apollo.Headings = YES -->

Streaming of HTTP multipart is supported out of the box with no additional configuration required.

<!-- vale Apollo.Headings = NO -->

### Proxy (Mule 4, CloudHub 2.0)

<!-- vale Apollo.Headings = YES -->

> Streaming is not supported and it is recommended to use a Flex Gateway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Streaming of HTTP multipart isn't supported. Use Flex Gateway instead.
```

## Kong

Streaming of HTTP multipart is supported out of the box with no additional configuration required.

<!-- vale Apollo.Headings = NO -->

## AWS API Gateway

<!-- vale Apollo.Headings = YES -->

> At this time, AWS API Gateway does not support streaming of HTTP data. An possible workaround is to use a Lambda expression which does support streaming.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AWS API Gateway doesn't support streaming of HTTP data. 

A possible workaround is to use a Lambda expression which does support streaming. To learn more, see [AWS Lambda response streaming](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/compute/introducing-aws-lambda-response-streaming/).
```

> <Note>
> 
> For more information, see [AWS Lambda response streaming](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/compute/introducing-aws-lambda-response-streaming/).
> 
> </Note>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Using HTTP Subscriptions with an API Gateway
subtitle: Enable HTTP multipart subscriptions when using an API Gateway infront of the Router
description: Enable HTTP multipart subscriptions when using an API Gateway infront of the Router.
published: 2024-03-11
id: TN0047
tags: [router]
---

Organizations commonly require that all APIs be fronted by an API Gateway [including the Apollo Router](/technotes/TN0037-api-gateways).

> These API Gateways often are not configured by default to send multipart HTTP requests chunks as they are available which leads to unexpected behavior
> when using [subscriptions over HTTP Multipart](/router/executing-operations/subscription-support#http-callback-setup).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These API Gateways often are not configured by default to send multipart HTTP requests chunks as they are available which leads to unexpected behavior when using [subscriptions over HTTP Multipart](/router/executing-operations/subscription-support#http-callback-setup).
```

> To allow HTTP multipart subscriptions to work correctly, the API Gateway must send the response as it comes and not "buffer" the response.

Reviewer 2: Why in quotes? I think without quotes conveys the issue clearly, or if you don't feel it does, we should elaborate on the actual issue.

## Azure API Management (APIM)

> By default, an HTTP API endpoint setup in APIM "buffers" the response from a downstream service. What this means is that it will "wait" to receive all
> the chunks from the HTTP request before returning it to the client.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, an HTTP API endpoint setup in APIM "buffers" the response from a downstream service. What this means is that it will "wait" to receive all the chunks from the HTTP request before returning it to the client.
```

> To enable HTTP subscriptions, the `forward-request` policy on the `backend` should be updated with `buffer-response="false"`. This will result in the
> endpoint sending the chunks to the requesting client as they are received.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable HTTP subscriptions, the `forward-request` policy on the `backend` should be updated with `buffer-response="false"`. This will result in the endpoint sending the chunks to the requesting client as they are received.
```

```xml
<policies>
    <backend>
        <forward-request http-version="2or1" buffer-response="false" />
    </backend>
</policies>
```

<Note>

> For more information, see [Azure API Management policy reference -
> forward-request](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/api-management/forward-request-policy#attributes).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see the [Azure API Management policy reference - forward-request](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/api-management/forward-request-policy#attributes).
```

</Note>

## Google Apigee

> By default, an HTTP API endpoint in Apigee "buffers" the response from a downstream service. What this means is that it will "wait" to receive all
> the chunks from the HTTP request before returning it to the client.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, an HTTP API endpoint in Apigee "buffers" the response from a downstream service. What this means is that it will "wait" to receive all the chunks from the HTTP request before returning it to the client.
```

Reviewer 2: This language is also copy/pasted from the Azure section, so it may make more sense to just move that out into it's own section.

Author: I wanted to explicitly call it out under each heading for 2 reasons

1. So if/when we add other providers, it will still make sense
2. Mostly likely people are not going to read the whole page but instead will skip straight to the heading of the provider they use so I'd like to have a complete answer waiting for them when they get there.

> To enable HTTP subscriptions, the `response.streaming.enabled` property should be set to `true` in both your ProxyEndpoint and TargetEndpoint definitions in the proxy bundle.
> This will result in the endpoint sending the chunks to the requesting client as they are received.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable HTTP subscriptions, the `response.streaming.enabled` property should be set to `true` in both your ProxyEndpoint and TargetEndpoint definitions in the proxy bundle. This will result in the endpoint sending the chunks to the requesting client as they are received.
```

```xml
<TargetEndpoint name="default">
  <HTTPTargetConnection>
    <URL>http://mocktarget.apigee.net</URL>
    <Properties>
      <Property name="response.streaming.enabled">true</Property>
    </Properties>
  </HTTPTargetConnection>
</TargetEndpoint>
```

```xml
<ProxyEndpoint name="default">
  <HTTPProxyConnection>
    <BasePath>/v1/weather</BasePath>
    <Properties>
      <Property name="response.streaming.enabled">true</Property>
    </Properties>
  </HTTPProxyConnection>
</ProxyEndpoint>
```

<Note>

> For more information, see [Streaming requests and responses](https://cloud.google.com/apigee/docs/api-platform/develop/enabling-streaming?hl=en).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see [Streaming requests and responses in the Apigee documentation](https://cloud.google.com/apigee/docs/api-platform/develop/enabling-streaming?hl=en).
```
